what's going on nation today I'm going
to demonstrate for you guys how to do a
sumo deadlift also known as a wide
stance deadlift now when compared to a
traditional deadlift you still are going
to be targeting you glutes quads and
lower back but this exercise is going to
put a bit more emphasis on your
hamstrings and you're also going to be
working on your hip strength as well
another benefit of the sumo deadlift is
going to put less stress on your lower
back and if you're looking to really
maximize your lift the bar has less of a
distance to travel because of how wide
your legs are we're performing the
exercise so you should be able to lift a
little bit more weight as well begin the
exercise by approaching the bar with a
wide stance your toes should be close to
the collars of the barbell and pointing
away from your body you can use an
overhand grip or a switch grip when
performing the exercise just make sure
that your hands are directly under your
shoulders if you grab the barbell with
your hands too close to your torso your
stomach is going to push your elbows
forward as you perform the lift as you
lower your body and grab the barbell be
sure to keep your chest up and push your
knees out it is also very important to
remember to keep your core tight
throughout the entire lift by taking a
breath to create that internal belt
before each rep try your best to keep
your shoulders neutral and as low as
possible to make the distance the bar
has to travel as short as possible this
will help you maximize the amount of
weight you can lift as you begin to lift
the bar to your knees lean back and
drive through your hips as you push
through your heels once you reach the
top
lower the bar back down to the ground at
a controlled manner and repeat remember
nation the deadlift is not a lower back
exercise you want to make sure you are
only lipping the bar by pushing through
your hips if you suffer from Bar drag on
your shins you can tape them before the
lift to ensure you don't tear up your
skin so there you guys have it the Thai
perform a sumo deadlift for more great
tips
exercises and routines feel free to join
us on Scott Herrmann fitness calm and as
always more good stuff coming soon see
you guys
if you're looking for a quick way to
switch things up login to your shf
profile and go to the workout section of
the website once there click on the
muscles you want to train then you'll be
brought to a page where you can further
filter down your search now you have a
complete list of all the routines that
target your chest and utilize only a
barbell or dumbbell from here you can
rate the routine add it to your routines
on your profile and if you scroll down
you can see a write-up of the entire
routine as well as photos of all the
exercises you can also download a
printable PDF just by clicking on it